# Cognibot-ML-Project
## Introduction
Covertype Prediction is an actual forest cover type dataset for an observation (30 x 30 meter cell) which was determined from US Forest Service (USFS) Region 2 Resource Information System (RIS) data. This dataset includes information on tree type, shadow coverage, distance to nearby landmarks (roads etcetera), soil type, and local topography. There are over half a million measurements in total. This study area includes four wilderness areas located in the Roosevelt National Forest of northern Colorado. These areas represent forests with minimal human-caused disturbances, so that existing forest cover types are more a result of ecological processes rather than forest management practices.

Given elevation, aspect, slope, tree type, shadow coverage, distance to nearby landmarks (roads etcetera), soil type, and local topography data  can we predict what type of tree would be present in forest ? Our project mainly focuses on the fact to predict the type of trees in sections of wooden area. Analyzing forest composition is a valuable aspect of maintaining a healthy wilderness around the area. Forest cover type data is often collected by hand or computing technologies, e.g. satellite imaging of a particular area well according to our data there are four wilderness areas located in the Roosevelt National Forest of northern Colorado. In this report, we aim to predict forest cover type using machine learning model, e.g. Random Forest and a variety of classification algorithms.
